= Whitewash - whitelist-based HTML filter for Ruby

This module allows Ruby programs to clean up any HTML document or
fragment coming from an untrusted source and to remove all dangerous
constructs that could be used for cross-site scripting or request
forgery.


== Synopsys

  require 'whitewash'

  whitewash = Whitewash.new   # use default whitelist.yaml
  clean_xhtml = whitewash.sanitize(html)


== Summary

All HTML tags, attribute names and values, and CSS properties are
filtered through a whitelist that defines which names and what kinds of
values are allowed, everything that doesn't match the whitelist is
removed.

The whitelist is provided externally, default whitelist is loaded from
the whitelist.yaml shipped with Whitewash. The default is most strict
(for example, it does not allow cross-site links to images in IMG tags)
and can be considered safe for all uses. If you find that it lets
anything exploitable through, please report it as a bug to Whitewash
developers.


== External Dependencies

Whitewash relies on REXML to parse HTML and put it back together, and
uses HTML Tidy to transform arbitrary HTML into valid XHTML that REXML
can understand.

 * REXML:

   * http://www.germane-software.com/software/rexml

 * HTML Tidy:

   * http://tidy.sf.net/
   * http://rubyforge.org/projects/tidy/

REXML is a part of standard Ruby library, so it is available on any
system that has Ruby. HTML Tidy needs to be installed separately.

By default, Whitewash looks first for tidy binary under /usr/bin and
/usr/local/bin, then for libtidy.so shared library under /usr/lib and
/usr/local/lib. Using the binary is slower, but safer: Ruby/Tidy uses DL
library to connect to libtidy.so and doesn't work properly when $SAFE is
greater than 0. If you want to use the library anyway, or if you have
Tidy installed in a non-standard location, you can override it like
this:

  whitewash = Whitewash.new(Whitewash.default_whitelist, './tidy')

If there's no .so in the file name, Whitewash will assume that it's a
binary that can be invoked with popen3.


== Copying

  Copyright (c) 2002-2009  Dmitry Borodaenko <angdraug@debian.org>

  This program is free software.
  You can distribute/modify this program under the terms of the GNU
  General Public License version 3 or later.
